## AddDevice

The AddDevice API provides the ability for a driver to add a device driver to a project. The ability to specify the location of the driver within the project as well as naming the device is also supported by the API.

###### Available from 3.2.0.


### Signature

`C4:AddDevice ()`


| Parameters | Description |
| --- | --- |
| str | Driver Name - Required. String of the driver name including the driver extension of .c4i or.c4z. |
| num | Room ID - Optional. ID value of the room where the driver will reside. |
| str | New Driver Name - Optional. String of the new name of the driver. |
| func | Callback Function - Required. A callback function must be passed as the last parameter. The callback function can be any valid function name. In the example below, a function named OnDeviceAdded has been created. In order to receive data from the AddDevice API, this function  must reside in the driver. The callback function takes two parameters: deviceId and, in the case of a Proxy Device, a table to contain all of the IDs of the Proxy devices and the Protocol Driver's ID. See the example to the right. |

```xml
Callback Function Example

function OnDeviceAdded(deviceId, tDeviceInfo)
       LogTrace ("Device Added")
       LogTrace(deviceId)
       LogTrace(tDeviceInfo )
end
```


### Returns
The API itself returns nothing. However, the callback function returns the Device ID value of the driver that was added. It will return a value of 0 upon failure.


### Examples
The Inter-Device Comms suite (controller and client) in the sample\_drivers directory of the SDK has been updated to show a live usage of `AddDevice`

1: **Adding a Device to a Project without providing a Room ID.**

`C4:AddDevice("driver_properties.c4z", OnDeviceAdded)`

In the example above, the AddDevice API will add the driver named `driver_properties.c4z` to the project in the same room where the driver exists.

2: **Adding a Device to a Room within a Project.**

`C4:AddDevice("driver_properties.c4z", 38, OnDeviceAdded)`

In the example above, the AddDevice API will add the driver named `driver_properties` to the Room in the project which has an ID value of 38.

3: **Adding a Device to a Room within a Project and re-naming the driver:**

`C4:AddDevice("driver_properties.c4z", 38, “My New Driver”, OnDeviceAdded)`

In the example above, the AddDevice API will add the driver named `driver_properties` to the Room in the project which has an ID value of 38. It will also rename the driver in the project to "My New Driver".


For further reference, the idc\_client and idc\_controller sample drivers delivered with the SDK both include auto-add functionality in their Driver Actions. See the sample\_drivers directory on the SDK landing page for more information.

