## AddLocation

The AddLocation API provides the ability for a driver to add a location to a project. The locations that can be added are those available in a Control4 project. This includes:

- Site - A new site can be added to a project at the highest level of the project including Home, Work or Corporate.
- Buildings - Buildings can be added to a project including: House, Building or Office.
- Floors - Floors can added to a project including: Main, First, Second and Basement.
- Rooms - Rooms can added to a project including: Theater, Foyer, Living, Dining, Kitchen, Laundry, Bathroom, Master, Bedroom, Front, Garage and Room.

###### Available from 3.2.0.


### Signature

`C4:AddLocation ()`


| Parameters | Description |
| --- | --- |
| num | ParentID Number -  This parameter is the device id of the location (Site, Building, Floor) where the new location is to be added. For example, if adding a new building to a project, this parameter would be the Site ID. If adding a new room to a project, this parameter would be the Floor ID. |
| str | Name of Location - This parameter is a string value representing the name that will be used for the newly added location. For example: "New Main Floor" or "Master Bathroom". The string passed in this parameter will be displayed in the ComposerPro project tree. |
| str | Type of Location - This parameter is a string value that defines the type of location being added. Acceptable values include: SITE, BUILDING, FLOOR or ROOM. |
| str | Image - This is an optional parameter that provides the ability to use a different image for the location. Valid images are based on the Type of Location. Available images are those images visible in ComposerPro. See Example 4. below for more information. |


### Returns

The API returns the new Location ID of the location that was added. It will return a value of 0 upon failure.


### Examples

1: **Adding a Site named Home to a Project:**

`C4:AddLocation(1, "HOME", "SITE")`

In the example above, note that the AddLocation API will add the Site, “HOME” to the project. Note the use of the SITE parameter. This is the highest level available in a Control4 system. In this example, the ParentID must be the ID of the Project, which is always 1


2: ** Adding a Building named "Office Building" to the Project.**

`C4:AddLocation(2, "Office Building", "BUILDING")`

In the example above, the ParentID must be the ID of a Site


3:  **Adding a Floor named First Level to the Project**

`C4:AddLocation(3, "First Level", "FLOOR")`

In the example above, the ParentID must be the ID of a Building


4:  **Adding a Room named Master Bathroom to the Project while using an image named "Bathroom":**

`C4:AddLocation(1, "Master Bathroom", "ROOM", "Bathroom")`

In the example above, the room named Master Bathroom is not supported by a "Master Bathroom" image in a Control4 project. In this case, the image for Bathroom is used as it most closely matches the room being added.

For further reference, the idc\_client and idc\_controller sample drivers delivered with the SDK both include auto-add functionality in their Driver Actions. See the sample\_drivers directory on the SDK landing page for further information.