## UUID

This API generates a UUID (Universally Unique IDentifier) as described in [RFC 4122][1]. The type of UUID that is generated depends on the arguments passed into the function.

###### Available from 3.3.0


### Signature

`C4:UUID(Type,[Value1,Value2,Value3])`


| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Type | Specifies the type of UUID to be generated: NIL, String, Name or Random. See below for further information. |
| Value1, Value2, Value3 | Values passed to the remaining arguments depend on the type of UUID to be generated. Please see the list below for additional information about required arguments. |

_The following section identifies the different types of UUIDs that are supported:_

**NIL**

Required Argument: `(”NIL”)`
A NIL UUID is one in which all bits are zero. It is represented as a string containing all zeros: `00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000`


**String**

Required Argument: `(”STRING”)`
A string containing the data to be formatted as a UUID. The String UUID type takes an input string and formats its contents as a UUID. The format of the string must match the following regular expression:

`^({)?([0-9a-fA-F]{8})(?-)?([0-9a-fA-F]{4})(?(DASH)-)([0-9a-fA-F]{4})(?(DASH)-)([0-9a-fA-F]{4})(?(DASH)-)([0-9a-fA-F]{12})(?(1)})$`

More generally, the following formats are accepted, where h is a valid hexadecimal character:

`hhhhhhhh-hhhh-hhhh-hhhh-hhhhhhhhhhhh`

`{hhhhhhhh-hhhh-hhhh-hhhh-hhhhhhhhhhhh}`

`hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh`

`{hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh}`


**Name**

Required Argument: `(”NAME”)`

Hash: The hashing algorithm to use when generating the UUID. Valid values including the following:

| Algorithm | Description |
| --- | --- |
| MD5 | Produces a version 3 UUID (UUID3) |
| SHA1 | Produces a version 5 UUID (UUID5) |

Namespace: A string containing the namespace to be used when generating the UUID. The value must be one of the following as described in Appendix C of RFC 4122:

| Namespace | Description |
| --- | --- |
| DNS | The value of the Name argument (below) is a fully-qualified domain name. |
| URL | The value of the Name argument (below) is a URL. |
| OID | The value of the Name argument (below) is an ISO OID (Object IDentifier). |
| X500DN | The value of the Name argument is an X.500 DN. |

Name: A string containing the content from which the UUID is derived.


**Random**

Required Argument: `(”RANDOM”)`
Generates a random version 4 UUID (UUID4). The generator utilizes entropy provided by the operating system. For example: (i.e., /dev/urandom).


### Returns

The function may return multiple values. On success, the function returns a string containing the newly generated UUID. On failure, the function returns nil and a string describing the failure.

[1]:	https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4122.txt